The next builtin interface I want to discuss here is the predicate interface, the word predicate,
when used as a verb means state affirm or assert something about the subject or an argument.
You remember from earlier videos on assertions that we asserted something by creating an expression
that evaluated to true.
If our certain assumption was correct, it used to predicate interface.
When you want to test whether something is true or false, the predicate interface method is called
test and it takes one argument and returns a boolean value.
The generic predicates functional interface is shown below in its public interface predicate.
We've got to type there as well because it's a generic there's a method test which returns to Berlin
and accepts one argument.
But switching back to coal, let's create a new class in our built in interfaces project.
And we'll call this one perfect example.
To this kind, it's fairly simple, it's demonstrating for examples of using the javadoc, each function,
the predicate function.
Looking at the first example in our main method there, the first predicate variable is not generic,
will accept any object to lambda expression returns true regardless of what's past a value to the test
method.
The second predicate variable is non generic, the lambda expression returns true if the object passed,
as the argument is no.
So the third predicate variable is top to a billion, and the lambda expression simply passes back the
value of the argument, whichever box to fit the returned TOPA billion.
And the fourth predicate variable was top to string there in this example, but demonstrate using a
full blown lambda expression with a declared parameter type in the parameter declaration using a lambda
expression which left the right curly braces there, but turning a boolean value if we execute this
code.
We could see the apple screen down the bottom.
In addition to the test method, the predicate interface provides five other methods.
First, one of the tougher methods to fault the method signature is predicate using generic.
It's time to end the lower bound predicate using wildcard ECPAT other.
This represents a composed predicate that represents a short circuiting, logical end of this predicate
and another the next type of methods default.
The method signature.
It's a predicate to get on top to t negate is a method, Nimish returns, a predicate that represents
the logical negation of this predicate.
The next type of method is also default, the predicate tintype to t or a predicate lower than, in
other words, to say they're using the wildcard supertight.
Other, this represents a composed predicate that represents a short circuiting logic or of this predicate
and another.
The teamwork at the top of method for the next one static is either predicate to using generic, so
it's type to t there.
So we've got a return type of T and a parameter type to T.
Bethesda is equal and past an object.
This returns a predicate the test of two arguments.
Errico according to objects dot equals and the last type of static predicate type to take in return
type of t they're not predicate meaning no apparent again.
S wildcard super T target.
This returns a predicate that is the negation of the supplied predicate.
But let's bring it back to Carol, let's look at each of these in code.
Let's start by penning some code to the main method.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So here what I'm doing is creating a new predicate variable, using a default method on the previously
created predicate before the date when we execute the negated predicate.
This should give us the opposite result from executing before that's run this code.
You could see the output at the bottom of the screen is a more creative approach to this code, starting
a line forty nine.
So here I'm creating two predicate variables, each of which test the condition for an integer past.
I also print a statement so I know what's being executed.
I then create a third predicate variable that uses the or default method and predicate which creates
a predicate joined by Short-circuiting or of the first two predicates.
So let's run this and check out the results.
So the airport confirms that both tickets were evaluated because the ditcher passed.
You can see down there on line 62 was minus 11, well, that evaluated to three for the first predicate.
And therefore, the second predicate needed to be evaluated to confirm the order situation.
Now, instead of the signing, the joint predicates, using the method, let's execute the predicates
in a predicate chain with the alternative method and the simpler code for this.
So that's the code.
So if I run this.
They say we get the same test results as last time.
They all want to actually test the short-circuiting by changing the image of postin, let's try posting
some more code to do that.
See the story from line 16 on there.
So let's run this.
And you can see the output at the bottom of the screen there.
So from this airport, you can see that the second predicate in the chain was never evaluated since
the result from the test provided the final result, the first predicate is false, for the first predicate
is false for or the first predicate is true.
You can actually chain as much as you wish.
And some more, Candy, this now includes an escape method added to the chain, as you can see there.
Let's run this.
And there's the airport at the bottom of the screen that simply negates our results from the previous
statement.
Next, I want to show you two quick examples of using the static methods is equal and not more code
in.
So the first time it declares the equality test and executes the test method immediately, the second
statement wraps a predicate in the not method and produces the opposite result.
That's from this to confirm that is the case.
I can see that at the bottom of the screen.
Right, so stop the video here.
This video in the last one, I reviewed three of the Java supplied devices, unary operator, Pinery
operator and the Predicate family of the devices in the next couple of videos are going to be reviewing
the function and Sheema and supplier families of devices.
See you in the next video.